---
title: An Architecture for Synchronization
date: 2023-07-16 19:24:00 +0800
categories: [programming, synchronization]
tags: [architecture]
---


### Overview

I have known this kind of architecture to ensure synchronization of read/write operations.

The system does not need to ensure instant update of the write operation in the reader's end, and the number of users of this system is limited. So this architecture is designed.

### Configuration

There are 1 write instance and several read instances deployed on different machines. A write instance has 2 copies of its data, 1 in its memory and 1 is persisted into the database that it connects.

### The Write Instance

Upon initialization, the one and only write instance reads and initialize all its data from the backup database in its memory. After that, all the read operations are completed in-memory.

All write operations are sent to the write instance. The write instance firstly execute the operation in memory and if necessary, save the change in data into the backup database. Then it saves this write command into the database, and updates the version number of the database.

### The Read Instances

The read instances initialize themselves on startup by connecting to the same backup database. To make sure the changes in the write instance is synchronized in the read instances, there are 2 schemes.

#### Incremental Synchronization

The read instances check the version number stored in the backup database every 40 seconds. If the version number is greater than its own, the read instances load the newest write commands from the backup database and execute them to synchronize the local data, and then updates its own version number to match the newest one.

#### Full Synchronization

Every 5 minutes, each read instance do a full synchronization, that is to delete all data it has and reconstruct all the data from the backup database. There is no doubt that this process is costly. Therefore the operation may not be always triggered, each time an incremental synchronization is triggered, the clock for full synchronization is reset.

However, if there is a huge mismatch of the version number between the read & write instances (e.g. if the version number of the read instance is greater than the version number of the write instance).

#### Problems with the Architecture

This architecture is sufficient for use of a limited number of users. Nevertheless, it has at least 2 setbacks.

1. **Latency**: As it is described in the above, there is almost always a latency of at most 40 seconds between the arrival of the write command and the display of its change.

2. **Write Bottleneck**: This architecture only allows 1 write instance to exist in the system. If the number of write commands explodes in some situations, the write instance will experience heavy pressure.
